@@AdditionalInfo.htm
<TITLE Additional information>

    * Special care has been taken to wrap every event call by a DoXXX method (e.g. for OnBeforeItem paint there is a
      protected DoBeforeItemPaint method) which is always virtual to allow descendants to override it and intercept so calls to
      events regardless whether there is actually an event handler assigned or not.
    * During a locked update stage (entered by BeginUpdate) there will be <B>no</B> updates of the tree nor the
      selection. If you change the selection in such a stage then it is temporarily accumulated and applied if, during an
      EndUpdate call, the inner update counter reaches zero.



<B>Borland C++ Builder:</B>

    * Define the constant NO_WIN32_LEAN_AND_MEAN in your environment/project options to avoid problems with undefined
      interfaces.
    * The automatic conversion process from Delphi source code to C++ code has unfortunately some bugs. Most of them
      could be solved by rearranging the Delphi code, but one problem still remains and must be solved manually. The translator
      does not automatically consider default parameters in functions. The parameters are correctly converted but without the
      default value. Usually the problem will appear when you try to compile and there is a call of the function with fewer
      than expected parameters.

Summary
This chapter collects everything else which is important or very helpful to know but which does not justify an own
chapter.
